John 1:1-3
  In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being. 

Colossians 1:15-17 
  "He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and   on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities—all things were created through   him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together."

Hebrews 1:1-3 (focusing especially on verse 2):
  "Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world 
(Verse 3 adds that the Son "upholds the universe by the word of his power," linking creation to ongoing sustenance.)

1 Corinthians 8:6:
 "Yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist."
This contrasts the Father as the source with Jesus as the mediator/agent of creation (and redemption/life).

Ephesians 3:9 (in some translations, including references to Jesus):
 "...and to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God, who created all things."
(Some older manuscripts and versions add "through Jesus Christ," e.g., KJV: "who created all things through Jesus 

Old Testament:

Genesis 1:26
  “Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness…”
  The plural “us” and “our” has been interpreted by some as a hint of plurality within God (later understood as the Son and Spirit).

Proverbs 8:22-31

  “The Lord begot me, the beginning of his works, the forerunner of his deeds of long ago;From of old I was formed,[b] at the first, before the earth.]When there were no deeps I was brought forth, when there were no fountains or springs of water; Before the mountains were settled into place, before the hills, I was brought forth;When the earth and the fields were not yet made, nor the first clods of the world.When he established the heavens, there was I, when he marked out the vault over the face of the deep;When he made firm the skies above, when he fixed fast the springs of the deep;When he set for the sea its limit, so that the waters should not transgress his command;When he fixed the foundations of earth, then was I beside him as artisan;[d]I was his delight day by day, playing before him all the while,Playing over the whole of his earth, having my delight with human beings.


  


